
This dataset was used in [1] and donated by the authors of that
paper. Accelerometer data was collected on a smartphone installed
inside a vehicle using a flexible suction holder near the
dashboard. An expert was responsible for driving the vehicle while
the device ran an Android application called Asfault [2], developed
specifically to store the current asphalt condition continuously
over time. Asfault stores the time-stamp of the collected data,
acceleration forces in along the three physical axes, latitude,
longitude, and velocity.

The acceleration forces are given by the accelerometer sensor of
the device and are the data used for the classification task.
Latitude, longitude, and velocity are given by the GPS and are used
to locate the collected/classified data. Each one of this
information is a different continuous time series. A sampling rate
of 100 Hz was used for each time series. It is important to note
that the Android system does not guarantee a perfect precision on
the interval between readings. This means that when we choose a
sampling rate of 100 Hz, the device should output between 95 and
105 observations per second.

For this data, the (X,Y,Z) acceleration time series are converted
into a univariate time series that represents the acceleration
magnitude.

In order to obtain labeled data, the Asfault application allows the
expert to inform the pavement condition before collecting the data.
To guarantee the integrity of data, Asfault also records videos of
the road over the data collection using the built-in camera. Thus,
it is possible to perform the analysis of these videos to confirm
the class labels assigned by the expert.

The datasets were collected in the Brazilian cities of Sao Carlos,
Ribeirao Preto, Araraquara, and Maringa using a medium sized
hatchback car (Hyundai i30) and two different devices (Samsung
Galaxy A5 and Samsung S7).


 The problem AsphaltPavementType involves three class labels: flexible pavement,
cobblestone streets, and dirt roads. Flexible pavement can be
defined as the one consisting of a mixture of asphaltic or
bituminous material and aggregates placed on a bed of compacted
granular material of appropriate quality in layers over the
subgrade. Flexible pavements are preferred over cement concrete
roads because they can be strengthened and improved in stages with
the growth of traffic.

There are 2111 cases: flexible (816 cases); cobblestone (527
cases); and dirt road (768 cases). Data is variable length, minimum
66 observations, maximum 2371. The data is split randomly into
50/50 default train series. The data can be resampled without bias.

The best reported accuracy with this univariate data was achieved
by the distance measure LCSS combined with the Complexity Invariant
Distance (CID-LCSS) which achieved 80.66\% accuracy (measured with
a 5x2 CV, see Table 7 of [1]).


[1] Souza V.M.A. Asphalt pavement classification using smartphone
accelerometer and Complexity Invariant Distance. Engineering
Applications of Artificial Intelligence Volume 74, pp. 198-211.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197618301349

[2] Souza V.M.A., Cherman E.A., Rossi R.G., Souza R.A. Towards
automatic evaluation of asphalt irregularity using smartphones
sensors International Symposium on Intelligent Data Analysis
(2017), pp. 322-333
